I will show that the space of sinusoidal functions of a fixed period
is closed under linear combination.

## Phase Shifts are Linear Combinations of Sin and Cos

Let's consider `cos(theta + phi)`. This proof will refer to
[this image](./cos-of-sum.JPG).

This image shows a vector `v_theta` (I actually forgot to mark the
endpoint of this; it doesn't matter). It also shows `v_{theta+phi}`
which is `OF`.

It is simple to drop a perpindicular from `OF` to `v_theta`. As we
know, the length of `OD` is `cos(phi)`. This further implies that the
length of `OB` is `cos(phi)cos(theta)`, because `OD` is just a scaling
of `v_theta` by `cos(phi)`.

This is not equal to `OA` though, which is what we want. To correct,
consider `DE`. Note that I know that the angle defined by `CFD` is
`theta`. I know that because the angle `OCA` must be `pi/2-theta`
radians, and so must the angle `FCD`. That implies `CFD` must be
theta.

So the angle `CFD=EFD` is theta. And DF is `sin(phi)` by
definition. Therefore, the length of `ED` must be
`sin(theta)sin(phi)`.

So, at the end, we have:

    cos(theta + phi) = cos(theta)cos(phi) - sin(theta)sin(phi)

Therefore, for a fixed `phi_0`, this shows that `cos(theta + phi_0)`
is equal to a linear combination of `cos(theta)` and `sin(theta)` (the
weights being `cos(phi)` and `sin(phi)`).

## Linear Combinations Are Phase Shifts + Amplitude Changes

Consider `a cos(theta) + b sin(theta)`. We know that we can write this
as `r(cos(phi) cos(theta) + sin(phi) sin(theta)`. We know this because
any vector `(a, b)` can be written in polar coordinates this way.

In that case, we immediately see from our previous work that what I
have here is:

    r cos(theta + phi)

This shows that the sum of two sinusoidal functions with equal period
stays sinusoidal.

## Summing Up

Now. The space of all sinusoidal functions of a fixed period is
`Acos(theta+phi_0)`. We have that any such function can be written as
a linear combination of `sin` and `cos`. Moreover, we showed that any
linear combination of `sin` and `cos` is still a sinusoidal
function. Therefore, in conclusion, we see that the sinusoidal
functions of fixed period are a vector space over `R` generated by the
basis `{sin, cos}`.
